# Online-Bundling-Simulator
To reduce the energy consumption of a smartphone, multiple data transfer requests from applications can be bundled together and granted at once in order to reduce the time the radio interface is on. The side effect of bundling is the increased delay experienced by mobile applications. The challenge in designing an optimal bundling algorithm is that the bundling decisions have to be made online without knowing the timing of future data transfer requests. To address this challenge, we consider the problem of minimizing the bundling cost, which is defined as a weighted summation of energy and delay costs. Energy cost is defined as the time the radio spends in the on state and is captured using the On/Off radio model. Delay cost is defined as the summation of delays of all the requests. 

To solve the aforementioned optimization problem, we develop a deterministic online algorithm called Break-Even (BE). BE's design is motivated by the classic Ski-rental problem. Specifically, BE does not automatically grant each data transfer request upon its arrival. Rather, it bundles them together and makes a single grant when the energy cost and wighted delay cost associated with that grant become equal. As a benchmark for evaluation of BE, we also design a dynamic programming-based offline algorithm that relies on the unrealistic assumption of knowing the entire arrival times of requests in advance. 

This project is the development of a discrete-event simulator to study the performance of different bundling algorithms. These algorithms include Break-Even (BE), Default (in which requests are granted as soon as they arrive) and the optimal offline algorithm. The input to the simulator consists of the weight factor (alpha), the value of the tail time and the arrival sequence. Performance metrics of interest that the simulator computes include grant count, latency cost, energy cost and the total cost of the bundling algorithm.

Full technical details of the Break-Even algorithm and its theoretical analysis can be found in the following paper:
1) A. Sehati and M. Ghaderi, "Energy-Delay Tradeoff for Request Bundling on Smartphones," in Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2017.
